Miriam ran upstairs narrowly ahead of her thoughts. In the small
enclosure of her room they surged about her, gathering power from the
familiar objects silently waiting to share her astounded contemplation
of the fresh material. She swept joyfully about the room ducking and
doubling to avoid arrest until she should have discovered some
engrossing occupation. But in the instant's pause at each eagerly opened
drawer and cupboard, her mind threw up images. It was useless. There was
no escape up here. Pelted from within and without, she paused in
laughter with clasped restraining hands ..... the rest of the evening
must be spent with people ... the nearest; the Baileys; she would go
down into the dining-room and be charming with the Baileys until
to-morrow's busy thoughtless hours were in sight. Half-way downstairs
she remembered that the forms waiting below, for so long unnoticed and
unpondered, might be surprised, perhaps affronted by her sudden
interested reappearance. She rushed on. She could break through that
barrier. Mrs. Bailey's quiet withholding dignity would end in delight
over a shared gay acknowledgment that her house was looking up.

She opened the dining-room door, facing in advance the family gathered
at needlework under the gaslight, an island group in the waste of dreary
increasing shabbiness .... she would ask some question, apologising for
disturbing them. The room seemed empty; the gas was turned dismally low.
Only one light was on, the once new, drearily hopeful incandescent
burner. Its broken mantle shed a ghastly bluish-white glare over the
dead fern in the centre of the table and left the further parts of the
room in obscurity. But there was someone there; a man, sitting perched
on the sofa-head, and beyond him someone sitting on the sofa. She came
forward into silence. They made no movement; boarders, people she did
not know, stupefied by their endurance of the dreariness of the room.
She crossed to the fireside and stood looking at the clock-face. The
clock was not going. "Are you wanting the real Greenwich, Miss
Henderson?" She turned, ashamed of her mean revival of interest in a
world from which she had turned away, to observe the woman who had found
possible a friendly relationship with Mr. Gunner. "Oh yes I _do_," she
answered hurriedly, carefully avoiding the meeting of eyes that would
call forth his numb clucking laughter. But she was looking into the eyes
of Mrs. Bailey..... Sitting tucked neatly into the sofa corner, with
clasped hands, her shabbiness veiled by the dim light, she appeared to
be smiling a far-away welcome from a face that shone rounded and rosy in
the gloom. She was neither vexed nor pleased. She was far away, and Mr.
Gunner went on conducting the interview. He was speaking again, with his
watch in his hand. He, having evidently become a sort of intimate of the
Baileys, was of course despising her for her aloofness during the bad
period. She paid no heed to his words, remaining engrossed in Mrs.
Bailey's curious still manner, her strange unwonted air of having no
part in what was going on.

She sought about for some question to justify her presence and perhaps
break the spell, and recovered a memory of the kind of enquiry used by
boarders to sustain their times of association with Mrs. Bailey. In
reply to her announcement that she had come down to ask the best way of
getting to Covent Garden early in the morning Mrs. Bailey sat forward as
if for conversation. The spell was partly broken, but Miriam hardly
recognised the smooth dreamy voice in which Mrs. Bailey echoed the
question, and moved about the room enlarging on her imaginary
enterprise, struggling against the humiliation of being aware of Mr.
Gunner's watchfulness, trying to recover the mood in which she had come
down and to drive the message of its gaiety through Mrs. Bailey's
detachment. She found herself at the end of her tirade, standing once
more facing the group on the sofa; startled by their united appearance
of kindly, smiling, patient, almost patronising tolerance. Lurking
behind it was some kind of amusement. She had been an awkward fool,
rushing in, seeing nothing. They had been discussing business together,
the eternal difficulties of the house. Mr. Gunner was behind it all now,
intimate and helpful and she had come selfishly in, interrupting. Mrs.
Bailey had the right to display indifference to her assumption that
anything she chose to present should receive her undivided attention;
and she had not displayed indifference. If Mr. Gunner had not been there
she would have been her old self. There they sat, together, frustrating
her. Angered by the pressure of her desire for reinstatement she crashed
against their quietly smiling resistance. "Have I been interrupting
you?"